INTRODUCTION 

This folder consists of three of the machine learning model protypes which are essential for this project to function. These machine learning models are descibed as below 
  1. Bus driver / Bus ratings
     This is done by analysing the past comments made by the bus passengers. It uses a snetiment analysis models (classification) in order to get a classification group  
     based on the key words used in the comments (Good, bad , aannoying etc...). I have also included the JS code to verify if the model output can be intergrated with 
     decided on stack technology (node.js / python ). 
                                  - The DB requirements is obtaiing comments stored in the database 
                                  - The node.js requirement is intergrating to the function responsible for emergency alert sorting in the backend
                                  

  2. Arrival time estimation 
     This model is designed to calculate the time for the bus to arrive from one location the designated bus station. It considered a range of features 
     such as
            - Current location of the bus
            - Location of the bus station 
            - Bus route distnace
            - Weather effect on the speed 
            - If the bus passenger limit has gone over the specific amount (to which the bus would not stop at a bus station until at least one passenger off board)
     To acheive this model, I have used machine learning algorithm knoen as XGBoost which highly defines gradient boosting in order to get a much higher accuracy. The XGBoost 
     is used with a regression style in mind.
                                  - The node.js requirement is the intergration of the model with the line of code needed to obtain the arrival time to display it in the map
                                  - The DB requirment is obtaining information in regards to the above mentioned feature at real time.
                                  - Previous calculated arrival time will also be needed.

3. Imergency list prioritization 
    This models is deisigned to sort out all available emergency alerts received by the bus drivers, so that the admin pannel (web application) has a clearer view as to who should they
    give more priority to. I have used the calssification style XGBoost algorithm for this model creation. 
                                  - The node.js requirement is the intergration with function which provides the web application the needed sorting of all emergency alerts 
                                    in real time 
                                  - The DB requirement is the obtaining of all emergency alerts sent to the admin pannel, which are stored. 

Importangt info !!!
I have also included the node.js part as well due to limited time constraints. 
Please be sure to keep that in mind before using the models as there are other files in place.


USER MANUAL 
1. Bus driver / Bus ratings
   Install dpendancies for jolib, numpy, sys and sqlite3 
   Run the set_db to create DB file [ node setup_db.js]
   Run [ node index.js ] 

2. Arrival time estimation
   Install dependacies such as sqlite3
   run [node eta_service.js]

3. Imergency list prioritization
     Installing dependancies [-m pip install xgboost joblib scikit-learn pandas]
     Running JS file [node triage_service.js]
     
    
